Patient report of recent symptoms/behaviors: (R/T DX & TX Plan)
NAME denied any suicidal ideation in the past week. She reported that she still feels sad
most of the time. She got an “F” on another math test this week. She expressed
frustration with math. She was tearful as she talked about feeling dumb and feeling like
she will never understand it. However, she reported that when she got the “F” her father
was more understanding, did not lecture her or ground her further.
Session Note: (include therapist clinical intervention & patient response)
This session focused on Treatment Plan Problem 1, Goals 2 (adding an extracurricular
activity) and 4 (learn coping skills and emotional regulation). We discussed her recent
participation in a church youth group service day at the Humane Society. This writer
encouraged NAME to share some of her interests in order to identify additional activities she
could become involved in. NAME’s affect brightened as she discussed playing basketball
when she lived in Texas. NAME was encouraged to find out from her school what she
would need to do to play basketball here. She is to report on this in the next session.
 Most of this session focused on beginning to assess NAME’s abilities to label,
modulate, appropriately express and cope with feelings. NAME was asked to brainstorm all
the names of feelings she can. She listed 26 feelings. NAME then was asked to share
times she had experienced the feelings. This activity assesses how aware NAME is of her
feelings and works on being able to verbalize feelings to others. NAME indicated that she
does not like to talk about her feelings. She was reluctant to talk about times she felt
negative feelings, such as guilty, lonely, overwhelmed, disappointed and unloved. We
explored why it is hard for her to share feelings. She indicated that it is hard for her to
trust others and she doesn’t feel like people understand. We explored ways she
currently uses to express feelings. NAME indicated that she likes to write, especially poetry. 
NAME was given a handout listing 50 feeling names to help her learn to differentiate and
accurately label feelings. She was given the homework assignment of writing a poem
about any feeling she has this week and bringing it to her to the next individual therapy
session.
Patient progress towards treatment plan goal(s):
NAME reported that her father responded in a more understanding way when she recently
got another “F” on a math test (Problem 2, Goal 3).
NAME began to work on emotional regulation. (Problem 1, Goal 4). She can identify many
of her feelings, but is reluctant to share negative feelings with others. This goal still
needs quite a bit of work. 