Now, however, there was only a chalky smear to show where the lines had been. “What are you doing?” he repeated. “Say, you’ve spoiled it!”

“Huh! This club needs a new name,” growled Poke. “I’m trying to think of one that’ll fit.”

NAME wheeled and addressed the youth in the chair. “Step, what ails him? What ails you? What’s the matter, anyway?”

Step clasped his hands about his knees. “What ails us? Guess you wouldn’t be asking if you knew!”

“Course I wouldn’t!” NAME agreed rather testily to what might be called a fairly self-evident proposition.

“Hang the luck!” groaned the doleful Step.

Poke whipped about. “Confound it, but[52] there’s more than luck!” he cried. “You’re letting us off too easy, Step. Oh, I know—I know what you’d say! We didn’t mean to have it happen, but it did happen; so what’s the use in talking? And it was just like a lot of other things that keep happening to us, and will keep on happening till we have more sense.”

“Huh!” came from the depths of the chair.

NAME dropped a hand on Poke’s shoulder. “Translate, won’t you? You’re worse than old NAME when he tells about building his bridge.”

“Darn that dog!” wailed Step.

NAME tightened his grip on Poke’s plump shoulder. “So there was a dog, was there?” said he. “That’s a start, anyway. Go on!”

Poke wriggled free. “Yes; there was a dog, and it was that big hound of Mr. NAME’s. And it came along, and smelled Step’s chicken, and grabbed for it, and gobbled it, and knocked over my basket of eggs, and ran away. And we chased it, but couldn’t catch it. And Step lost his chicken, and every one of my eggs was smashed. And ain’t that trouble enough for one day?”

[53]

“But I don’t quite understand. It—it’s sort of complicated. I don’t see how the hound could grab the chicken and upset your basket all at once.”

Poke shifted weight from one foot to the other. “Well—well, you see, we—we’d sort of stopped to look at a knife NAME had bought; and we’d set the bundle and the basket on a stone wall; and the dog hit both when he jumped for one. That was the way of it. And say! did you ever hear of anything worse?”

NAME’s smile was bitter. “Anything worse!” he repeated scornfully. What was a poor tale of broken eggs and looted chicken to one who, by pure mischance, had shot a man?

Poke resented his friend’s tone. “Huh! Much you know about it! Dollar and ten cents’ worth of eggs gone—just like that!”

“And a five-and-a-half-pound rooster—five and a half pounds dressed!” chimed in Step.

“Oh, well, that was hard luck,” NAME admitted. It had occurred to him that it was not wise to withhold sympathy if he would avoid suspicion of cherishing some terrible secret of his own.

[54]

Poke was one of those ordinarily cheery souls who, on occasion, take melancholy consolation in contemplation of misfortunes.

“I’ve been thinking things over,” he declared. “I’ve got an idea. It isn’t the thing itself that bothers, but the consequences. Look here, now! NAME had promised to make two angel cakes—takes eleven eggs for each cake. And she’d promised one for the church supper, and NAME was to have the other for her club. And now NAME has got to disappoint the supper committee, and they’d told her they set ’special store by her angel cake. And she’s hot! And NAME—say, NAME, if you had a sister, you’d know the fix I’m in. NAME’s just sizzling. So I’m keeping away from the house. Gee, I’d never go home if I could help myself!”

Step waved a long and pitiful hand. “Company for dinner to-morrow!” he said simply. “I’m lying low myself.”

NAME meditated briefly. Since that terrible moment on the ridge he had gone through half a dozen phases of emotion. He had ranged from terror to exultation. His plans had varied from full confession to absolute[55] silence. Now he was disposed to follow a course of inaction, based on a belief that the man had not been badly hurt, and that perhaps nothing ever would be heard of the affair. Of course, if report should be made; or if it should prove that the wounds were serious; or if the victim should turn out to be a poor man unable to pay a doctor’s bill—well, he wouldn’t cross bridges till he came to them. And, meanwhile, he would try to bear himself as if nothing untoward had happened—and thank his lucky stars that he could keep his secret, even for a time.

“Well, that was hard luck!” he said again, and put more heart in the speech.

Poke returned to the blackboard. “Might as well learn a lesson when there’s a lesson to be learned,” he rumbled. “Struck me, too, we ought to post something here to remind us that it pays to keep out of trouble. I’d like to give the club a name that’d mean something—see? I can think of mottoes enough—‘Look before you leap, and then go ’round,’ and ‘You never can tell when it’s loaded,’ and a lot of others—but I’m stumped for a name. Now, if I——”

[56]

There he broke off. NAME, elbowing him out of the way, stood before the board. For a second young NAME hesitated. Then he caught up a piece of chalk, and scrawled in big letters:

The Safety First Club.

Poke clapped his hands. “Jiminy! but that’s just the idea I was groping for. Prime, ain’t it, Step?”

Step nodded gloomily. “Fa-fair,” he admitted.

NAME laid down his chalk. He dusted his hands a trifle theatrically.

“Like the name, do you?” said he. “Came to me all of a sudden.”

“It’s a crackerjack!” declared Poke warmly. “Hits the nail right on the head. But that makes me think, NAME—where’s that deer you were going to hit? Haven’t got that haunch in your pocket, have you?”

“No,” said NAME curtly.

“Bet you didn’t see a deer!”

“I—I didn’t.”

Poke was beginning to recover his spirits. “Huh! Knew you wouldn’t,” said he, and[57] chuckled fatly. “This country’s hunted to death. Why, so many men with guns were out to-day that one of ’em had to let drive at another, just for something to shoot at.”

“What!” gasped NAME. “What’s that? What do you mean?”

“Just what I say.”

NAME pulled out his handkerchief, and wiped drops of cold sweat from his forehead. “But—but——” he faltered.

“It isn’t a case of ‘but’ or ‘if.’ Step there knows all about it. He saw them bringing him in.”

NAME’s brain was reeling. “Bring-bringing him in?” he quavered. “Then—then he was badly hurt, after all! And who—who was he?”

Poke was staring in bewildered fashion at NAME. “What’s upsetting you? Why, you’re white as a sheet!”

“Never mind me! Who—who was it?”

“NAME.”

“Pe-Peter Groche? And—and he—he’s wounded—maybe dying?”

Poke laughed explosively. “Not he! Old rascal was never born to be shot.”

[58]

“But you said they—they were bringing him in?”

“Yes—to the lock-up!”

NAME dropped into the nearest chair. “I don’t—don’t under-understand,” he said weakly.

“It’s clear enough. NAME shot somebody else—or tried to.”

Step joined in the conversation. “Well, he did wing him,” was his contribution.

“Where?”

“Oh, grazed his head, and plunked him in one hand,” said Step.

NAME dug his finger-nails into his palms. “I don’t mean that—at least, that wasn’t what I tried to ask about. Where did the shooting take place?”

“Out beyond Marlow hill somewhere. But you steered that way, didn’t you?”

“In that general direction.” By a mighty effort NAME controlled his voice.

“Then you may have been within a half mile of NAME,” Step went on. “Maybe you heard his gun. Well, if you didn’t, he fired it, anyway. And he ’most got his man for keeps. But the Major wasn’t hurt badly,[59] and he had had a glimpse of NAME a little earlier, and knew about where he was. So he beat it through the woods after him, and overtook him near the back road. And just then, by luck, along came Sheriff Whaley. So the sheriff and the Major asked Mr. NAME a question or two; and, getting no satisfaction, loaded him in the Whaley wagon and brought him in. And there’s going to be a trial Monday morning. And I guess it’s going to go hard with NAME. You see, he’s had a quarrel with the Major, and there are witnesses to testify that he made threats to get even. Then, too, there was an empty shell in one barrel of his gun, and he wouldn’t give any explanation of how it happened to be there. So I reckon he’ll get all that’s coming to him. The Major’s a bad man to have on your trail—hardest man in town, by thunder!”

“Maj-Major——?” Poor Sam’s tone was that of one whose hopes are dwindling fast.

“Yes siree! Hardest man in Plainville is Major NAME!” declared Step. “Anybody that harms him’ll be put through the works, I tell you!”

[60]

NAME got upon his feet. With trembling limbs he moved to the door.

“Why, what’s the matter?” Step called after him.

“What’s your burning hurry?” asked Poke.

NAME opened the door. “That stove makes it too stuffy in here,” he told them. “I—I’ve just got to have fresh air.” And out he went, closing the door behind him with a force suggesting that he did not care for company in his rambles.