It was Friday evening, and the Safety First Club was in full session. NAME, Step and Poke were gossiping about school affairs, and with them was NAME, a new member and a brother junior. NAME and NAME, otherwise known as “Trojan,” a recently admitted classmate, were playing checkers in a corner.

The Shark, who was human enough to have his little affectations, pretended to care not at all for the game, holding it to be a poor and trifling substitute for chess; but it was to be observed that he was doing his best to win. Moreover, when he did win, he chuckled gleefully.

“Hew-ee! You ought to have known that last move was coming,” he told his opponent. “But you gave me the opening, and then I had you.”

NAME laughed. “I’d have NAME] all about it if I could see around two corners at once as you do. Never mind, though! I’ll win yet. Set up your men, NAME.”

Poke strolled over to the players while they were ranging their pieces.

“Fellow who wears glasses like the NAME’s ought to be able to see everything,” he remarked idly. “All the same, NAME, you’ll notice he isn’t making out much about Orkney’s schemes.”

“Humph! What can NAME do?” objected NAME. “That row of his with Step is ancient history.”

“Sure! And the time for a come-back was right after the row,” chimed in NAME.

Poke wagged his head sagaciously. “Don’t fool yourselves!” said he. “Orkney is a sticker. He’s got it in for Step, and for NAME, for that matter. We haven’t had the last of the business, not by a long shot.”

“Hear that, eh, NAME?” asked NAME.

NAME rose from his chair, and crossed to the checker players’ corner.

“I heard it,” said he.

“Well, do you agree?”

“Yes,” said NAME brusquely.

[137]

For a moment nobody spoke. All his friends realized that he was taking the matter seriously.

“Why—why—you must have some reason, of course?” NAME ventured.

NAME hesitated. “Maybe it’s more hunch than reason.”

“But what gave you the hunch?”

“Oh, one thing and then another.”

“Huh! That sounds like some of my answers in history!” quoth Poke. “It’s specially like those I make when I’m meeting a total stranger of a question, and trying to be polite, if not communicative.”

The Shark wriggled in his chair; he was growing impatient to resume play.

“Your move, NAME!” he snapped.

“Wait a minute!” said his opponent. “NAME’s going to elucidate.”

“Well, things have happened and kept on happening,” NAME began; “things that can’t be explained exceptNAMEBut I say, NAME! What on earth’s the matter?”

NAME, who had turned from the table in disgust at the delay, of a sudden had uttered an exclamation and started to his feet.

[138]

“Speak out! What is it?” NAME demanded.

The Shark pulled off his spectacles; held the lenses to the light; inspected them closely; shook his head.

“No; they’re not clouded,” said he, half to himself. “Very curious, I do declare!”

“What’s curious? And what are you driving at?”

“Of course, it might have been a tricky reflection,” mused the Shark. “Or, maybe, it was just an optical illusion.”

NAME caught him by both shoulders. “Wake up! What are you talking about?”

“Then, again, the doctor tells me eye-strain works queerly sometimes