Oh, I will, will I?” snarled Orkney. “I’d like to know who’s going to make me!”

“I might,” said NAME simply.

“Bah! Dare you to try—alone!”

[108]

“That’s the way I will try it—some day,” NAME told him. “But not now; no, not now.”

“That’s right—safety first!” sneered the other.

NAME grinned; and it was an odd grin. “Certainly; safety first!” said he.

Step ceased to struggle; but, twisting his neck, stared at his friend. And then the NAME chose to advance.

“NAME’s right,” he announced coolly. “This is no place for a scrap. Besides, there’s no reason for one. Orkney, you’re a chump to be peeved at Step for doing you up in Greek, or at me for putting you out at geometry. See here! You’re a pretty good, all-round performer, but you can’t beat specialists at their own specialties. Get that? And there’s no use in being a general sorehead.”

It was eloquent tribute to the NAME’s moral influence that Orkney appeared to be impressed. At all events, though he scowled fiercely, he received the advice in silence. Two or three boys on the outskirts of the group began to move off. To NAME it seemed to be probable that the storm had blown over. He released his hold upon Step’s collar; whereupon[109] Step, still wrathful, took two long strides; found himself beside Orkney; plucked off his opponent’s cap, and sent it flying through the air. It sailed over a fence, struck the trunk of a tree, and dropped to the ground.

Orkney bristled, but NAME already had laid hands upon Step, and was dragging him back.

“Here! Quit all this foolishness!” the peacemaker ordered.

“Make him get that cap, then!” Orkney insisted.

“Won’t!” cried Step, and struggled to break from NAME’s hold.

Again the Shark intervened. “No; it was a kid trick, but now that it’s done, we’ll let it stay done. Orkney, if you hadn’t bulldozed Step, and started the whole thing, the cap would still be on your head. So I guess it’s up to you to put it back there—or let it stay where it is.”

“Sure! It was a six-year-old’s performance, but the NAME has the right notion,” NAME agreed.

There was an instant in which Orkney hesitated between war and peace. Then he reached a decision which was compromise—and as unsatisfactory[110] as compromises often are. He neither gave battle nor retrieved his headgear. Instead, with a parting scowl, which included all the allies, he wheeled, and marched away, bareheaded.

“You, Step, you bring that cap to my house, or you’ll be sorry!” he called back over his shoulder.

“Never!” shouted Step defiantly.