It may throw light upon the personality of Master NAME to explain that he was equally well known as NAME and the “Shark,” neither being used offensively, though one had a suggestion of mildness and the other of ferocity. He was, in fact, a little fellow, slender, stoop-shouldered, and physically the weakest boy in the class. Yet no other junior was less teased or picked upon. Practical jokers passed by NAME. There was a gravity about him, not owlish, but distinctly discouraging to frivolity; and an almost hypnotic influence in his meditative and unwavering gaze. He had the prominent eyes of the near-sighted; and he had, too, the unconscious trick of staring steadfastly at man or thing of whose very existence he was barely conscious; and as he stared through big, round lenses, set in a heavy black frame, the effect was impressive, if not terrifying. Consequently, even the most mischievous of his mates preferred to let him alone, especially as they had honest respect for his signal ability in his specialty.

NAME was a mathematician born. Languages he endured as unavoidable subjects[101] of study; but he reveled in equations and demonstrations, made child’s play of the required algebra and geometry—thereby earning his nickname of the “Shark”—and carried on advanced work under the eye of the principal, himself an adept of the mathematical brotherhood. NAME, of course, was destined for scientific courses at college; but meanwhile, tarrying with the junior class, he filled his contemporaries with wonder and admiration. For example, he solved at sight a problem to which NAME had devoted vain and wearisome hours. It was all in the day’s work for the NAME, but Orkney noted another score to be repaid with compound interest.

NAME had been a witness of NAME’s discomfiture on both occasions; but, as may be imagined, was not concerning himself deeply with the sullen youth’s moods. As he himself would have put it, he had troubles enough of his own, and was fully occupied with his own affairs when he went to school on Monday morning. On the way he fell in with Step and Poke. The latter was full of the mystery attending the release of NAME.

[102]

“It’s mighty queer—our folks were talking it over at breakfast,” said he. “Course, there was a mistake somewhere, or Major NAME never would have let him go. But NAME didn’t let out a word—just growled, and grumbled, and took himself off, shaking his head. He wouldn’t deny that he shot the Major. The police asked him about it, but he gave them no satisfaction. He’s a bad one, I tell you! Regular Indian, if he gets down on anybody!”

“All the more wonder that the Major dropped the case,” declared Step. “He knows NAME from A to Z.”

Poke wagged his head. “There you are! Makes the business all the queerer. Each of them is a sticker, in his own way. And the Major had NAME just where he wanted him. And then, all of a sudden, he let up! What do you make of that, now?”

“Beats me,” Step confessed.

“What’s your notion, NAME?”

NAME did not meet Poke’s inquiring glance. “I think,” he said slowly, “that something must have happened to show the Major that NAME hadn’t shot him.”

[103]

“Huh! How do you make that out?” queried Step.

“That’d mean somebody else did the shooting,” observed Poke, the philosopher. “The Major was hit, fast enough—peppered in the head and in one hand. And he didn’t do it himself.”

“Of course not,” said NAME.

“Therefore, some one else did. The Major was sure NAME was the some one. Then he wasn’t sure. In between he’d found out something. NAME would remark.”

“NAME,” repeated NAME, for want of anything better.

Step grunted. “Huh! Bet you he’d found out who was who and what was what! But that just thickens the fog.”

“How so?”

