“I don’t intend to entertain Plainville in a body.”

Step’s expression was bewildered. “Say—say, you ain’t crawling, are you?” he queried.

The suspicion stung Sam’s pride. “Crawling? Not on your life! I’m looking for Tom Orkney, and when I find him I’ll ask him to[169] walk back in the woods with me—he’ll know what for. And you can come along, and one or two of the others, but——”

The cloud vanished from Step’s brow. “Oh, that’s all right!” he said heartily. “Can’t have a mob trailing along, of course. But I say! There’s Orkney now—just shooting out from behind the point. He’s chasing one of the kids.”

Sam’s glance followed the direction of Step’s extended arm.

“Yes, that’s Orkney, fast enough. But what’s he doing?”

“Pestering the youngster!” snapped Step. “Can’t you see? And I declare, if it isn’t Little Perrine he’s worrying!”

Sam watched the swiftly moving figures, one short and slender, the other tall and stout. Little Perrine, barely in the lead, seemed to be hard pressed, for he dodged frequently without being able to throw off his pursuer.

Suddenly Step cried out sharply: “The miserable bully! Look, Sam! he’s driving the kid right down to the dam, where the ice won’t hold him for a minute!”

“Confound it all!” fumed Sam. “Why[170] won’t people think of Safety First? Why won’t——”

There he broke off, aghast at the catastrophe he beheld, but Step’s voice rose shrilly:

“Great Scott! it’s happened! They’re in—both in!”

With appalling swiftness the ice had yielded beneath the weight of the two, and Little Perrine, vanishing as if through a trap-door in a stage, had been followed almost instantly by Orkney.

Step started to the rescue, striking out wildly and shouting as he raced down the pond at top speed. Sam, about to join in the dash, checked himself. He knew well enough how the thin ice near the dam, once broken, would crack and crumble under even slight pressure. “Safety First!” was the thought which flashed upon his brain; safety not so much for himself as for the pair struggling in the wat