Sam, following his enemy at a more moderate pace, was burdened by a peculiar sense of helplessness. He was troubled by no doubts of the justice of his cause; but he was annoyed and perplexed by the obstacles Fate threw in his way. They were the harder to consider philosophically because he was quite sure that he was obeying his new rule of Safety First, and that Orkney’s guilt was clearly established. At the same time he had to admit that Tom had offered valid grounds for delaying combat. Altogether the case struck him as one of difficult application of entirely sound principles.

As he turned a corner, however, he forgot Orkney for a little; for within a dozen yards of him he beheld two men in conversation. And one of the men was Major Bates. The other was Peter Groche.

Sam almost halted. He gazed in surprise at the two. The Major had never appeared to[160] be straighter, or fiercer, or more bristling; while Groche’s slouch was never more pronounced. The ne’er-do-well was listening sulkily to the Major’s very energetic remarks, occasionally growling a brief reply to the veteran.

As it chanced, Sam had not met the Major since the night he had made confession. A glance was enough to show that he had nearly recovered from the effects of his wounds; and the ear testified that the vigor of his speech was in no wise abated.

After a second’s hesitation Sam advanced. As he neared the men, Groche, seeming, of a sudden, to catch sight of him, wheeled and shuffled off, growling as he went. The Major swished his cane, as if he regretted that it might not descend upon the retreating legs. Then he, too, saw the boy, and the severity of his expression lessened a trifle.

“Ah, young man!” he said. “Ah, good-morning!”

“Good-morning, sir,” said Sam.

The Major tapped the sidewalk smartly with his cane. “I’m out of hospital. Am I to regard myself as in receipt of your felicitations?”

[161]

“’Deed you are, sir!” Sam assured him with unfeigned warmth.

The Major’s eyes twinkled. “Mutually satisfactory state of things, eh? I’m pleased myself. Fact is, I’m so overflowing with good will this morning that I’ve been trying to improve that vagabond.”

“Yes, sir,” said Sam.

“By Jove! but I fancy I made it clear even to his befuddled wits that there is no profit in persistently remaining a social liability. I warned him that if he didn’t mend his ways he’d end in state’s prison. Big, hulking brute like that’s liable, some time, to commit a felony.”

Sam glanced at the retreating Groche. The fellow was big and hulking, and brutish as well—an ugly customer, in short.

“Has he been bothering you again, sir?”

“No,” answered the Major. “I rather anticipated some of his characteristic attentions, but he has quite neglected me. Not that I complain—certainly not! Only I took occasion to point out to him the exceeding unwisdom of again annoying me. Odd, too, how he took the advice. Leered at me, and mumbled,[162] but made no distinct threats. But I must not detain you, young man. You, I infer, are on your way to school?”

“Yes, sir,” said Sam again.

“Then proceed. A moment, though!” The Major’s bushy eyebrows met in a frown, which wholly lacked ferocity. “Your holidays are at hand, I believe. Some day, when you’re at leisure, I should be glad to show you my modest collection of weapons of war and the chase. Ought to interest you, as a budding sportsman with a promising record of large game!”

The Major’s eyes were twinkling once more. Sam blushed hotly.

“I’ll be very glad to come, sir,” he said.

“Then I have the honor to wish you a very good morning,” quoth the Major; and they parted in friendly fashion.

Both Major Bates and Peter Groche soon lost first place in Sam’s consideration. The school session promptly put the Orkney affair to the fore.

The Lester prize for declamation was one of the great honors of the course, and competition[163] always was keen. The contest covered a full term, two boys and two girls entering the lists each Monday. Usually they were seniors, elocution being part of the required work of the final year, but sometimes juniors volunteered, often with a notion of “working off” the requirement ahead of time, but occasionally with a hope of winning.

There could be no doubt that Tom Orkney did his best to win. As it happened, he was fortunate in his competitors. The other boy was a senior, who took the platform simply because he had to take it, and who raced through his selection with an eye single to ending the ordeal in a minimum of time. Then two girls performed conscientiously but ineffectively. And then came Orkney, junior and volunteer.

Tom had chosen an ancient favorite “speaking piece,” so ancient, indeed, that a giggle ran through the hall when the principal announced, “The Parting of Marmion and Douglas.” But the merriment quickly died, as the boy swung into Scott’s stirring verse.

“Good work!” was the involuntary and whispered tribute of Step Jones, who sat beside[164] Sam. “Awfully good work, confound him!”

Sam nodded. Orkney was revealing unexpected dramatic fire; and, unpopular as he was with his audience, was capturing its admiration. One might suspect that he had had professional coaching, but one could not deny that it had been worth while.

There was loud applause—not the customary ripple of hand-clapping but a spontaneous and hearty demonstration—and Tom was smiling when he made his bow to his schoolmates, and another bow to the principal, and came down the steps from the stage. It was not a pleasing smile, for there was in it more than a trace of supercilious triumph.

“Hang the chump! Look at the smirk of him!” complained Step.

Sam made no answer. Orkney was approaching, and for an instant the eyes of the rivals met. Sam’s expression did not change, but the other’s smile lost the little charm it had. Sam found it bitterly taunting; it seemed to say to him, “This was what you schemed to prevent, eh? Well, you didn’t do it, did you?”

[165]

Step drove an elbow into his ribs. “You can’t spoil that mug by pounding it! Say, though! When are you going to get at it?”

“Soon as I can,” said Sam simply.

“Date with him?” whispered Step eagerly.

“Not exactly.”

The classes were rising to march out of the hall, but Step found time to make a suggestion.

“Maybe you can catch him down at the pond this afternoon. They say the ice is at last strong enough to hold.”

“I’ll be there,” Sam promised.

Mild as the season had been, the temperature had been falling steadily, if slowly; and the skim of ice on the big mill-pond on the outskirts of Plainville had thickened until it had been for some days in rather perilous use by venturesome skaters. Now, however, Sam believed it was reasonably safe; and when he descended the slope to the pond, its surface was dotted with swiftly gliding figures.