It is not to be supposed that Sam Parker, in spite of his exhibition of new self-control in the affair of Step and Tom Orkney, had taken on the gravity of years. There was, indeed, a change in the boy, but it was subtle rather than manifest. Sam worked a little harder than before, but played with no lack of zest. It was to be noted, however, that there was a decrease in the number of scrapes into which he fell.

Perhaps Hannibal, Sam’s bull terrier, was first to perceive, if not to understand, the change. Hannibal was a sagacious animal, beyond the follies of puppyhood, but still full of interest in the doings of his master and his friends; fond of a long tramp in their company; and very pleased to doze comfortably in a corner of the club room. The new days were much to Hannibal’s liking. Sam never had been cruel to him, but at times may have[125] been a bit thoughtless. Now, though, Hannibal enjoyed a degree of consideration quite unparalleled in his experience.

Lon Gates, shrewdly observant, began to remark that Sam’s visits to the barn resulted in less disturbance of its orderly arrangements.

“Ain’t had a hedgehog day lately, have you, Sam?” he queried. “World don’t seem to be so all-fired uncomfortably crowded as it was, eh? And I dunno’s there’s so much genooine solace in kickin’ over buckets as a feller might think there was.”

“True enough, Lon,” said the boy soberly.

The hired man grinned cheerfully. “They say nobody has to hunt for trouble, and I guess there’s sense in that. Still, it’s amazin’ how often trouble’ll let you alone if you don’t go stirrin’ it up. There’s that wuthless scamp, Peter Groche, now. He wouldn’t ’a’ been locked up over night if he hadn’t been so cantankerous. Course, they really took him in on suspicion, and I must say Groche is about the suspicionest nuisance that infests these parts. And all he got out of bein’ ugly was a sleep behind the bars.”

“That’s so,” said Sam.

[126]

“Funny how close-mouthed the Major is ’bout the whole business,” Lon went on. “If only he’d talk he’d make things easier for quite a lot of the chaps that was out gunnin’ that day.”

“Yes?”

Lon chuckled. “Te he! There’s always a reg’lar bargain sale rush when the season opens, but this year it was wuss than usual. Seems as if everybody was sort o’ venison hungry; so it turns out there’s about a dozen fellers who ain’t been able to prove what you’d call a water-tight alibi. That is, they can’t bring witnesses to show that they didn’t pot the Major; and they’re bein’ joshed half out o’ their lives, some of ’em. You see, first and last, a sight o’ folks must have been prowlin’ through Marlow woods that mornin’, and none of ’em happened to think to keep a time register. The huntin’ crowd’s all tore up about it.”

“No doubt,” said Sam. If he had cared to meet Lon’s eye, he might have noted a twinkle, suggesting that the hired man had theories of his own as to the identity of the careless sportsman. But Sam avoided Lon’s gaze, and Lon chose not to make direct inquiry.