“Link—link in a chain?” Step repeated.

“Just that! A chain of meannesses! Listen!” And Sam went on to describe briefly, but forcefully, the persecution to which he believed he had been subjected. “And now we’ve had the stoning,” he added. “There is one explanation, and only one. Tom Orkney has dropped Step and taken me on. He hates me more for interfering than he hates Step for squabbling with him. And just as that’s the only explanation, there’s just one way to handle the case—and that’s for me to settle with Tom Orkney. And I will—don’t you worry!”

None of his hearers took his words lightly. All were ready to consider them very gravely. Here, indeed, was an issue for a youthful court of honor; and it behooves such courts, young or old, to pass judgment in all solemnity.

“Well, I guess you’re entitled,” said Poke slowly.

The others, with one exception, nodded assent. The Shark looked unconvinced.

“Talking about chains,” he remarked, “you mustn’t forget the old rule: the chain’s no stronger than its weakest link. And there is[152] a link that may be weak. I don’t say it is, but I do say it may be.”

“Rats!” snapped Step.

The Shark wheeled to face him. “Rats nothing! What’s the record—the school record—for the shot put?”

“What are you talking about?”

“The record. What is it?”

“Oh, thirty or thirty-five feet for the twelve-pound shot.”

The Shark frowned. “Confound it! but can’t you chaps make anything exact? ‘Thirty or thirty-five feet’! How’s anybody to make computations with all unknown quantities?”

“What are you trying to compute?”

The Shark juggled the stone, which he still held. “Humph! This weighs more than twelve pounds, I’ll bet—may run up to fifteen,” said he. “But what am I figuring on? Why, the amount of force required to send it through the arc this stone described.”

“Twelve to fifteen pounds!” jeered Step. “Seems to me you’re furnishing some of the unknown quantities yourself.”

[153]

“I am,” said the Shark. “I admit it. I also admit that I can’t reach satisfactory results from such data. But the results I do get—subject to revision, of course—make me doubt that Tom Orkney could have done the job. When I have the stone weighed, and when I measure the distance across the room, and add a good estimate of the distance the thrower stood from the window, I believe I can plot a curve——”

A chorus of shouts interrupted him. The non-mathematical members of the club would have none of such follies. Evidence? Wasn’t the cap evidence enough to convict Orkney?

Stoutly the Shark maintained that one should not put too great faith in circumstantial evidence.

“What! You’d put more in your old curves and calculations?” cried Step.

“Every time!” vowed the Shark.

Sam cut short the discussion. “Look here, fellows!” he said sharply. “I’m going to thrash Orkney, and there’s no more to be said about it.”

“Well, thrash ahead!” growled the Shark. “I don’t object to the general proposition;[154] but I am pointing out that you may be wrong as to your reason for thrashing him.”

“I’ll risk that!” cried Sam hotly. “And I’ll even the score at the first chance I get.”

This decision, warmly admired and praised by the club, seemed to be in a fair way for accomplishment on Monday when Sam, walking alone to school, met Orkney at a street corner.

Meditation had cooled his anger, but had not lessened his determination to have a speedy accounting. He put himself in Orkney’s path, and gave him monosyllabic greeting.

“Huh!” It must be confessed that there was a distinctly challenging note in Sam’s growl.

“Huh!” responded Orkney. In fairness it is to be stated that he betrayed no sign of anxiety; and instead of halting, stepped aside and passed the boy holding the center of the walk.

Sam turned, and overtook him in three long strides. Then they moved on together, but with a space of three or four feet between them.

[155]

