“Why didn’t he have the other fellow locked up in Groche’s place?”

“Jiminy! that’s a good point!” cried Poke.

Sam said nothing, and for a moment the three trudged on in silence.

“Oh, well,” said Poke at last, “the Major knows now, but we’ll know sooner or later.”

[104]

“How’s that?” Sam asked quickly.

Poke shrugged his shoulders. “Oh, things are bound to come out. They always do. It’s just like a dog burying a bone—if he doesn’t dig it up, some other dog will.”

“Don’t you believe a secret can be kept?”

“Well, I can’t remember keeping many myself,” chuckled Poke. “And they say murder will out, you know. This wasn’t murder, of course, but it came uncomfortably near it.”

“It sure did!” agreed Step.

Sam dug his hands deeper in his pockets. Being human, and companionable, and very fond of Poke and Step, he had been sorely tempted to confide in his friends. But the Major had warned him not to gossip about the affair, and the Major’s wish naturally had great weight. As for Poke’s theory that the story would become known generally, sooner or later—well, Sam had his doubts. So far as he knew, only his parents and the Major shared with him knowledge of what had happened in the woods.

In school that day Sam studied hard and paid close attention to the recitations. That[105] was part of his plan for proving to his father that he could deserve confidence. When the class was dismissed, he made careful selection of the books he would need for home study, and so was a little behind his mates in leaving the building. Within a hundred yards of the school-ground gates, however, he overtook a group of boys, clustered closely about two disputants. One, as he saw, was Step; the other, Tom Orkney.

From a little distance the Shark was regarding the squabble through his big glasses.

“What’s the row about?” Sam asked as he came up.

“Nothing!” said the Shark. “That’s why they’re making such a fuss.”

Sam laughed, but quickly grew serious. Both Step and Tom were talking loudly, each hurling threats and defiance at the other; Step’s long arms were going like a windmill’s, while Orkney’s fists were doubled. From his acquaintance with the methods of adolescent controversy it appeared to be probable that words were about to lead to blows.

“Just one of Orkney’s grouches,” the Shark went on indifferently. “He’s been ruffling[106] his feathers at Step ever since that business in Greek the other day.”

Sam nodded. “That, eh? But they’re going too far—they’ll be mixing it up.”

“Well, Step’s got the reach by fully four inches.”

“Maybe, but Orkney’s a tough customer.”

The Shark turned, and deliberately inspected Sam from head to foot. “You could do him up,” he said with cold-blooded calmness.

“Perhaps. That isn’t saying Step could, though. He hasn’t weight enough.”

At this instant Orkney, catching sight of Sam in the background, changed his tactics. He moved away from Step, and lowered his hands.

“So that’s the game, is it?” he taunted. “Keep blustering, but be sure not to hit a fellow till your gang’s here to back you—that’s your way, Step Jones. Had to wait for Sam Parker, didn’t you?”

Step’s anger was that of the patient man, slow to kindle but hard to extinguish. He struck at his opponent, but long as his arm was, missed him by inches.

[107]

Sam instinctively started forward, and forced a way through the ring. Tom fell back a pace.

“That’s right! Pile on—the whole gang of you!” he shouted.

Step, for his part, was more than ready to accept the challenge; but Sam intervened. Impulse—he was willing enough to fight Orkney—had yielded to sobering second thought. It behooved a young man, intent upon establishing his self-control and common sense, to avoid brawling over a trifle on the public street. Sam’s hand caught Step’s collar.

“Here! Drop the fighting!” he commanded.

Step wriggled, but the grip on his collar did not yield.

“Oh, let me at him!” he begged. “We might as well have it out—he’s been pestering me for a week.”

“Never mind! He’ll stop it now.”